---
title: "Summer 2022 Bioacoustics Internship Opportunity -- apply by Jan. 23, 2022"
layout: post
output:
  html_document:
    df_print: paged
---
The Natural Sounds and Night Skies division at the National Park Service is hiring a bioacoustics intern for a 12 week internship in summer 2022. Can be remote or based in Fort Collins, CO. Apply by 1/23/2022.

See here for full position description: [https://rock.geosociety.org/eo/viewJob.asp?jobID=3318](https://rock.geosociety.org/eo/viewJob.asp?jobID=3318)

The intern will assist the bioacoustics specialist(s) with bioacoustics projects at the Natural Sounds and Night Skies Division of the National Park Service. Specifically, the intern will develop workflows and methodology for analyzing approximately 5 terabytes of acoustic monitoring data collected to examine biodiversity impacts of simulated beaver structures (SBS) at Rocky Mountain National Park. The intern will develop skills in R, data analysis and visualization, computation of acoustic indices, automated detection of focal species, identification of birds and/or other animals by ear, searching and synthesizing pertinent scientific literature, and translating complex technical material into relevant and digestible narratives for park staff. The intern will be exposed to bioacoustics software packages and learn about the challenges of managing and processing terabytes of audio data.

Public Land Name: Natural Resource Program Center-Fort Collins

Position Title: Acoustic Assistant

Agency: NPS

Position Type: SIP

Position ID Number: 2022032

Location: Colorado, Fort Collins


More info about Scientists in Parks: The Scientists in Parks Program is now accepting applications for the Summer 2022 Season. There are over 150 exciting internship opportunities in national parks across the country. These paid internships contribute to natural resource management needs at parks with projects related to biological sciences, physical sciences, social sciences, and science communications/education. A list of positions and how to apply can be found at: [go.nps.gov/scientistsinparks](go.nps.gov/scientistsinparks). The application deadline is January 23, 2022.


<sub> *Any views or opinions expressed on this website are the author's and do not represent endorsement by any affiliated institutions, employers, collaborators, or any U.S. federal agencies.* </sub>

